index.md, before:

---
title: Home
layout: home
---

This is a *bare-minimum* template to create a Jekyll site that uses the [Just the Docs] theme. You can easily set the created site to be published on [GitHub Pages] – the [README] file explains how to do that, along with other details.

If [Jekyll] is installed on your computer, you can also build and preview the created site *locally*. This lets you test changes before committing them, and avoids waiting for GitHub Pages.[^1] And you will be able to deploy your local build to a different platform than GitHub Pages.

More specifically, the created site:

- uses a gem-based approach, i.e. uses a `Gemfile` and loads the `just-the-docs` gem
- uses the [GitHub Pages / Actions workflow] to build and publish the site on GitHub Pages

Other than that, you're free to customize sites that you create with this template, however you like. You can easily change the versions of `just-the-docs` and Jekyll it uses, as well as adding further plugins.

[Browse our documentation][Just the Docs] to learn more about how to use this theme.

To get started with creating a site, simply:

1. click "[use this template]" to create a GitHub repository
2. go to Settings > Pages > Build and deployment > Source, and select GitHub Actions

If you want to maintain your docs in the `docs` directory of an existing project repo, see [Hosting your docs from an existing project repo](https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs-template/blob/main/README.md#hosting-your-docs-from-an-existing-project-repo) in the template README.

----

[^1]: [It can take up to 10 minutes for changes to your site to publish after you push the changes to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll/creating-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll#creating-your-site).

[Just the Docs]: https://just-the-docs.github.io/just-the-docs/
[GitHub Pages]: https://docs.github.com/en/pages
[README]: https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs-template/blob/main/README.md
[Jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com
[GitHub Pages / Actions workflow]: https://github.blog/changelog/2022-07-27-github-pages-custom-github-actions-workflows-beta/
[use this template]: https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs-template/generate

Commit message:

Added home and setup sections. WIP: navigation, network and state

index.md, after:

---
title: Home
layout: default
nav_order: 1
---

# Welcome to the Mobile Team's React Native Code Guidelines!

![Mobile Development](https://media2.giphy.com/media/v1.Y2lkPTc5MGI3NjExa25idWVmanJwOHVwMmV2Zm5td2Rkd2E1dTA4M3dxaTZyd3FxMjBnOSZlcD12MV9pbnRlcm5hbF9naWZfYnlfaWQmY3Q9Zw/yBwgX64KAPrHW2ltZ2/giphy.webp)

Hey Team!

Welcome to our React Native Code Guidelines! 🎉 Here, you'll find everything you need to know about writing clean, efficient, and maintainable code for our mobile apps. Whether you're a seasoned developer or just getting started, these guidelines will help us all stay on the same page and produce top-notch code.

## Why Do We Need This?

Great question! Consistency is key to our success. By following these guidelines, we can:

- **Collaborate Smoothly**: When everyone writes code in a similar way, it's easier to understand and work on each other's code.
- **Maintain Quality**: Clean code is easier to debug, test, and maintain. This means fewer bugs and faster development!
- **Onboard Quickly**: New team members can get up to speed faster if our codebase is consistent and well-documented.
- **Enjoy the Process**: Let's face it, writing and reading clean code is just more fun!

## What You'll Find Here

Here's a sneak peek of what we cover:

- **Code Structure**: How to organize files and folders in our projects.
- **Styling**: Our rules for writing clean and readable code, including naming conventions and formatting.
- **Best Practices**: Tips and tricks for writing efficient and maintainable code.
- **Common Pitfalls**: Mistakes to avoid and how to fix them.
- **Useful Tools**: Recommended tools and libraries that make our lives easier.

## Let's Make It Happen!

Remember, these guidelines are here to help us, not to restrict us. Feel free to suggest improvements or ask questions anytime. Let's work together to keep our codebase clean, efficient, and fun to work with.

Happy coding! 🚀
